The four dimensions are not separate personality traits.
They form a working loop.
Delegation chooses the right job.
Description makes the job legible.
Discernment evaluates the result.
Diligence governs how the result is used.
Each dimension creates input for the next.
A clear delegation boundary tells you what to describe.
A precise description creates acceptance criteria for discernment.
Discernment reveals uncertainty.
Diligence decides whether to revise, approve, stop, or change the boundary.
Then the loop runs again.
If the result fails because the goal was vague, return to Delegation.
If the AI misunderstood a constraint, improve Description.
If a claim is unsupported, strengthen Discernment.
If the action exceeded authority, repair Diligence.
The weakest dimension often determines the outcome.
Excellent description cannot rescue the wrong task.
Strong delegation cannot rescue careless evaluation.
Perfect evidence cannot justify an unauthorized action.
Fluency requires the whole chain.
This loop is especially useful when work is interrupted.
Save the current goal, artifact state, unresolved question, next allowed action, and acceptance test.
A new session can resume from evidence instead of replaying a long conversation.
Use the loop after real tasks, not as a vague self-rating.
Ask which decision was hardest, where rework appeared, what evidence changed your mind, and which control prevented a mistake.
Improvement becomes visible when it changes the next workflow.
First, treat Delegation, Description, Discernment, and Diligence as one chain.
Second, return to the dimension that caused the failure.
Third, preserve state and evidence so the loop can resume.